deployment/README.md, before:

# Deployment

This folder contains the code to run a deployment of the Planetary Computer APIs in Azure. It includes a few steps that use Terraform and Helm.

## Deploy script

The logic for the deployment workflow is encapsulated in the [bin/deploy](bin/deploy) script. You can run from the top level of the repository via `scripts/cideploy` by CI. You can also drop into a console to manually run steps for a dev deployment via

```
scripts/console --deploy
```

## Manual resources

### Deployment secrets Key Vault

Deployment requires access to a Key Vault with some deployment secrets. If you are making you own stack, you'll need to create your own key vault and set the appropriate variable in the terraform. See the `keyvault.tf` resource for the list of secrets required, and to make sure these docs
are not out of date.

The service principle here needs to have the Storage Account Data Contributor role assigned for each container made available through the sas-token and sign endpoints.

## Dev deployment

To deploy your own stack, terraform will run in
the `deployment/terraform/dev` stack. Run `scripts/deploy --dev` to do this. You'll need the following
environment variables set according with the credential
information for a service principal that has permissions
to deploy to your subscription:

- `subscriptionId`
- `tenantId`
- `servicePrincipalId`
- `servicePrincipalKey`


__Note:__ Remember to bring down your resources after testing with `terraform destroy`!

Commit message:

Logging improvements (#23)
* Add dedicated health check endpoint for pctiler

Also sets the liveness probe to use this new endpoint. Uses the same URL
path as pcstac, this will help isolate requests in the logs.

* Use constants for logging service name

* Fix local volume mount

The directory is copied in the Dockerfile, so it was loading on the
container, however this typo prevented reloading of pccommon when
changes were made without rebuilding the image.

* Consolidate tracing functionality

Rather than maintaining parity between two request tracing
implementations, create a common trace that can be used by both
projects.

* Prevent request tracing on health check endpoints

* Parse collection/item ids from search for logging

* Allow ACR overrides in dev deployments

Defaults to publish images for staging deploys

* Rename for Python convention

* Include request ip in trace

* Remove unused config

* Use request sensitive middleware for trace logs

Traditional middleware will corrupt usage of starlette request objects
by downstream route functions. Use a middleware class crafted for
accessing the request body without interfering with further processing.

* Lint: formatting

Auto-formatter

deployment/README.md, after:

# Deployment

This folder contains the code to run a deployment of the Planetary Computer APIs in Azure. It includes a few steps that use Terraform and Helm.

## Deploy script

The logic for the deployment workflow is encapsulated in the [bin/deploy](bin/deploy) script. You can run from the top level of the repository via `scripts/cideploy` by CI. You can also drop into a console to manually run steps for a dev deployment via

```
scripts/console --deploy
```

## Manual resources

### Deployment secrets Key Vault

Deployment requires access to a Key Vault with some deployment secrets. If you are making you own stack, you'll need to create your own key vault and set the appropriate variable in the terraform. See the `keyvault.tf` resource for the list of secrets required, and to make sure these docs
are not out of date.

The service principle here needs to have the Storage Account Data Contributor role assigned for each container made available through the sas-token and sign endpoints.

## Dev deployment

To deploy your own stack, terraform will run in
the `deployment/terraform/dev` stack. Run `scripts/deploy --dev` to do this. You'll need the following
environment variables set according with the credential
information for a service principal that has permissions
to deploy to your subscription:

- `subscriptionId`
- `tenantId`
- `servicePrincipalId`
- `servicePrincipalKey`

If you want to deploy local code changes, instead of the published images, be
sure to set the following environment variables with the correct public Azure
Container Registry repo where you published your local images:

- `ACR_STAC_REPO`
- `ACR_TILER_REPO`
- `IMAGE_TAG`

__Note:__ Remember to bring down your resources after testing with `terraform destroy`!
